---
layout: page
title: Fixed-Wing
description: Multi-mesh, multi-solver simulations of aerospace aircraft. 
img: assets/img/publication_preview/HRLES-WAKE3D.png
importance: 3
category: Applications
---

Via solver technology development, we work towards advancing the aerospace design space through CFD. 
Using our WAKE3D framework, we have studied many problems spanning fixed- and propeller-wing aircraft, including participation in the [AIAA High Lift Prediction Workshop](https://hiliftpw.larc.nasa.gov/) series. Additionally, we have studied jet-propulsion flows focused around aeroacoustics. Much of this work is guided by the [NASA CFD Vision 2030](https://www.cfd2030.com/).

<h2>AIAA High Lift Prediction Workshop CRM</h2>
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/CRMHL.gif" title="High Lift Workshop CRM" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Flow visualization of the HLPW CRM at 7.05 degrees angle of attack. Isocontours of vorticity magnitude colored by density illustrates the regions of laminar and turbulent flow. Sixth-order spatially-accurate elements are used in the off-body region to track the turbulent vortices.
</div>

We participated in the 2022 AIAA HLPW, which focused on studying CL-max (max lift coefficient) of the NASA Common Research Model aircraft.
We applied a hybrid RANS-LES approach through our dual-mesh, dual-solver WAKE3D. The finite volume CFD code NSU3D is used in the near-body region to solve the Reynolds-Averaged Navier Stokes (RANS) equations, and in the off-body region, the discontinous Gakerkin solver dg4est is used to solve the compressible Navier-Stokes equations with a Large Eddy Simulation (LES) subgrid scale model. The near-body region is composed of unstructured mixed-type mesh elements which is overset with a 16-level adaptive Cartesian adaptive off-body mesh. To exchange solutions between these two regions, TIOGA (topology-independent overset grid assembler) is used determine overlapping mesh elements, apply hole cutting, and interpolate the solutions. 


CRM-Yplus-21p47.png
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/CRM-Yplus-21p47.png" title="High Lift Workshop CRM Y+" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Instantaneous Y+ profiles of the RANS-LES simulations of the CRM-HL aircraft for angle of attack 21.47 degrees.
</div>


<h2>SMC006 Jet Nozzle</h2>
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/smc006.jpg" title="SMC006 Jet Nozzle Flow" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/smc006.amr.mesh.png" title="SMC006 AMR Mesh" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Simulation of SMC006 jet nozzle performed using WAKE3D. Vorticity magnitude is shown demonstrating the chaotic downstream flows.
</div>

Computational Fluid Dynamics-Computational Aeroacoustics (CFD-CAA) is a very important area of research focused on accurate prediction of acoustics generated by aerospace vehicles. 
One canonical test case for studying CFD-CAA is the SMC006 jet nozzle, which was studied at NASA. 

<article>
    {%- include Fixedwing_papers.html %}
</article>
